Types:
1.-accept-proposal 
    The accept-proposal performative allows an agent to state that it accepts 
    a proposal made by another agent.

2.-agree 
    An accept performative is used by one agent to indicate that it has acquiesced
    to a request made by another agent. It indicates that the sender of
    the agree message intends to carry out the requested action.

3.-cancel 
    A cancel performative is used by an ageril to follow up lo a pieviuus
    request message, and indicates that it no longer desires a particular action
    to be carried out.

4.-cfp
    A cfp (call for proposals) performative is used to initiate negotiation
    between agents. The content attribute of a cfp message contains both anI 
    Agent Communication Languages 177 action (e.g. 'sell me a car') and a 
    condition (e.g. 'the price of the car is less
    than US$10 000'). Essentially, it says 'here is an action that I wish to be carried
    out, and here are the terms under which I want it to be carried out - send
    me your proposals'. (We will see in the next chapter that the cf p message is
    a central component of task-sharing systems such as the Contract Net.)

5.-confirm
    The confirm performative allows the sender of the message to confirm
    the truth of the content to the recipient, where, before sending the message,
    the sender believes that the recipient is unsure about the truth or otherwise
    of the content.

6.-disconfirm
    Similar to confirm, but this performative indicates to a recipient
    that is unsure as to whether or not the sender believes the content that the
    content is in fact false.

7.-failure
    This allows an agent to indicate to another agent that an attempt to
    perform some action (typically, one that it was previously requested to
    perform) failed.

8.-inform
    Along with request, the inform performative is one of the two most
    important performatives in the FIPA ACL. It is the basic mechanism for communicating
    information. The content of an i nform performative is a statement,
    and the idea is that the sender of the i nf orm wants the recipient to
    believe this content. Intuitively, the sender is also implicitly stating that it
    believes the content of the message.

9.-inform-if 
    An inform-if implicitly says either that a particular statement is
    true or that it is false. Typically, an inform-if performative forms the content
    part of a message. An agent will send a request message to another
    agent, with the content part being an inform-if message. The idea is that
    the sender of the request is saying 'tell me if the content of the inform-if
    is either true or false'.

10.-inform-ref 
    The idea of inform-ref is somewhat similar to that of inform-if:
    the difference is that rather than asking whether or not an expression is true
    or false, the agent asks for the value of an expression.

11.-not-understood 
    This performative is used by one agent to indicate to another
    rent that it recognized that it performed some action, but did not undetstand
    why this action was performed. The most common use of notunderstood
    is for one agent to indicate to another agent that a message
    that was just received was not understood. The content part of a
    not-understood message consists of both an action (the one whose purpose
    was not understood) and a statement, which gives some explanation of
    why it was not understood. This performative is the central error-handling
    mechanism in the FIPA ACL.

12.-propagate 
    The content attribute of a propagate message consists of two
    things: another message, and an expression that denotes a set of agents.
    The idea is that the recipient of the propagate message should send the
    embedded message to the agent(s) denoted by this expression.

13.-propose 
    This performative allows an agent to make a proposal to another agent,
    for example m response to a cfp message that was previously sent out.

14.-proxy 
    The proxy message type allows the sender of the message to treat the
    recipient of the message as a proxy for a set of agents. The content of a
    proxy message will contain both an embedded message (one that it wants
    forwarded to others) and a specification of the agents that it wants the message
    forwarded to.

15.-query-if 
    This performative allows one agent to ask another whether or not
    some specific statement is true or not. The content of the message will be
    the statement that the sender wishes to enquire about

16.-query-ref 
    This performative is used by one agent to determine a specific value
    for an expression (cf. the eval uate performative in KQML).

17.-refuse 
    A refuse performative is used by one agent to state to another agent
    that it will not perform some action. The message content will contain both
    the action and a sentence that characterizes why the agent will not perform
    the action.

18.-reject-proposal 
    Allows an agent to indicate to another that it does not accept
    a proposal that was made as part of a negotiation process. The content
    specifies both the proposal that is being rejected, and a statement that chactcrizcs
    the reasons for this rejection.

19.-request 
    The second fundamental performative allows an agent to request
    another agent to perform some action.

20.-request-when 
    The content of a request-when message will be both an action
    and a statement; the idea is that the sender wants the recipient to carry
    out the action when the statement is true (e.g. 'sound the bell when the
    temperature falls below 20 Celsius').

21.-request-whenever
    Similar to request-when, the idea is that the recipient
    should perform the action whenever the statement is true.

22.-subscribe 
    Essentially as in KQML: the content will be a statement, and the
    sender wants to be notified whenever something relating to the statement
    changes.